README.md, before:

# Puppet Development Container

[![Maintained by betadots GmbH](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%20by-betadots%20GmbH-blue.svg)](https://www.betadots.de)
[![QA🚦](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Build and publish a 🛢️ container](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/build_container.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/build_container.yml)

This repository contains the code for the betadots Puppet Development Container (PDC).

## Usage

```shell
docker run -ti --rm ghcr.io:betadots/pdc:latest bash
```

Rather than using bash directly, you have the option to mount the repository and run a script.

Included fixed software versions, see: [build_versions.json](build_versions.json)

For any given container tag you can lookup the specific versions here: `https://github.com/betadots/pdc/blob/$TAG/build_versions.json`

## Version schema

The version schema has the following layout:

```text
v<container.major>.<container.minor>.<container.patch>-<puppet.major>
```

Example usage:

```shell
docker run -ti --rm ghcr.io:betadots/pdc:v1.0.1-8 bash
```

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| container.major | Describes the major version of the base container (Ubunutu 22.04) or incompatible changes |
| container.minor | Describes new features or refactoring with backward compatibility |
| container.patch | Describes if minor changes or bugfixes have been implemented |
| puppet.major | Describes the contained major Puppet version (7 or 8) |

### other tags

```text
latest
latest-<puppet.major>
main-<puppet.major>
```

`latest` should be self-explanatory. The `main` tags are built with every push to the main branch and can be regarded as development tags.

## Changelog

see [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

## How to contribute?

see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## How to release?

see [RELEASE.md](RELEASE.md)

Commit message:

update readme on how we update our version
Signed-off-by: Robert Waffen <rw@betadots.de>

README.md, after:

# Puppet Development Container

[![Maintained by betadots GmbH](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%20by-betadots%20GmbH-blue.svg)](https://www.betadots.de)
[![QA🚦](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Build and publish a 🛢️ container](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/build_container.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/betadots/pdc/actions/workflows/build_container.yml)

This repository contains the code for the betadots Puppet Development Container (PDC).

## Usage

```shell
docker run -ti --rm ghcr.io:betadots/pdc:latest bash
```

Rather than using bash directly, you have the option to mount the repository and run a script.

Included fixed software versions, see: [build_versions.json](build_versions.json)

For any given container tag you can lookup the specific versions here: `https://github.com/betadots/pdc/blob/$TAG/build_versions.json`

## Version schema

The version schema has the following layout:

```text
v<container.major>.<container.minor>.<container.patch>-<puppet.major>
```

Example usage:

```shell
docker run -ti --rm ghcr.io:betadots/pdc:v1.0.1-8 bash
```

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| container.major | Describes the major version of the base container (Ubunutu 22.04) or incompatible changes |
| container.minor | Describes new features or refactoring with backward compatibility |
| container.patch | Describes if minor changes or bugfixes have been implemented |
| puppet.major | Describes the contained major Puppet version (7 or 8) |

### other tags

```text
latest
latest-<puppet.major>
main-<puppet.major>
```

`latest` should be self-explanatory. The `main` tags are built with every push to the main branch and can be regarded as development tags.

### Version updates

PDC will update its minor version as long as the tools it encapsulates also only update their minor versions. If a major version of a tool is released, PDC will update its major version, too. Also if the base container is updated to a new major version, PDC will update its major version. Or if there are incompatible changes in the container build setup.

## Changelog

see [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

## How to contribute?

see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## How to release?

see [RELEASE.md](RELEASE.md)
